h1. Candle

2010-11-17

Using OS X spotlight to retrieve meta data from files.

This code is in development, and is very simple. You can only read from Spotlight, currently I don't have any plans to write back to Spotlight. Attempting to write to the attributes hash will raise an error. This is intentional, so if I do find myself trying to do this, I should implement the functionality. If you need to write back to spotlight then have a look at "xli's gem":https://github.com/xli/spotlight (which this gem is based on)

h2. Tested with

Tested with Ruby 1.9.2
I haven't tested it with older Ruby versions. 

h2. Inspiration

Most of the C code was extracted from "http://github.com/xli/spotlight":https://github.com/xli/spotlight
Unfortunately for me xli's gem doesn't compile in ruby 1.9.2
One day i'll figure out why and contribute a patch


h1. How to use

item = Candle::Base.new('/path/to/file.jpg')
item.metadata

returns a hash of attributes (and that's about it)


<pre>
	
	kMDItemBitsPerSample           = 32
	kMDItemColorSpace              = "RGB"
	kMDItemContentCreationDate     = 2010-06-17 00:06:17 +1000
	kMDItemContentModificationDate = 2010-06-17 00:06:17 +1000
	kMDItemContentType             = "public.jpeg"
	kMDItemContentTypeTree         = (
	    "public.jpeg",
	    "public.image",
	    "public.data",
	    "public.item",
	    "public.content"
	)
	kMDItemCreator                 = "Adobe Photoshop CS4 Macintosh"
	kMDItemDisplayName             = "example.jpg"
	kMDItemFSContentChangeDate     = 2010-06-17 00:06:17 +1000
	kMDItemFSCreationDate          = 2010-06-17 00:06:17 +1000
	kMDItemFSCreatorCode           = ""
	kMDItemFSFinderFlags           = 0
	kMDItemFSHasCustomIcon         = 0
	kMDItemFSInvisible             = 0
	kMDItemFSIsExtensionHidden     = 0
	kMDItemFSIsStationery          = 0
	kMDItemFSLabel                 = 0
	kMDItemFSName                  = "example.jpg"
	kMDItemFSNodeCount             = 0
	kMDItemFSOwnerGroupID          = 80
	kMDItemFSOwnerUserID           = 501
	kMDItemFSSize                  = 268346
	kMDItemFSTypeCode              = ""
	kMDItemHasAlphaChannel         = 0
	kMDItemKind                    = "JPEG image"
	kMDItemLastUsedDate            = 2010-06-17 00:06:17 +1000
	kMDItemOrientation             = 1
	kMDItemPixelCount              = 3852696
	kMDItemPixelHeight             = 2103
	kMDItemPixelWidth              = 1832
	kMDItemProfileName             = "sRGB IEC61966-2.1"
	kMDItemResolutionHeightDPI     = 300
	kMDItemResolutionWidthDPI      = 300
	kMDItemUsedDates               = (
	    "2010-06-17 00:00:00 +1000"
	)
	
</pre>




Using cocoa bridge

require 'osx/cocoa'
OSX.require_framework 'CoreData'

# To load the coredata framework




h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

h4. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Dougal MacPherson. See "License":License.txt for details.
